# Non-proliferative-diabetic-retinopathy-detection-using-feature-fusion-technique

Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) is a chronic disease in the eye due to blood leakages which causes vision impairment and can be identified on the surface of the retina. Diabetic patients are the most common subject to this disease, and ignorance to it can result in permanent visual damage and eventual blindness. DR falls in two categories: Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (PDR) and Non-Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (NPDR). Non-Proliferative DR is the most common form of DR whereas Proliferative DR is the severe stage of DR which causes the blood vessels to close off. DR can be detected in its early stages by the Red lesions i.e., microaneurysms and hemorrhages. In this paper we implement a method of detecting red and bright lesions combined together by fusion for detection of NPDR form. The proposed methodology uses fundus images as its input and employs modified approach to extraction of retinal blood vessels and median filtering. To train the model, multiclass Support Vector Machine classifier is implemented using the extracted features. The method is tested on 1928 fundus images from ‘KAGGLE APTOS’, DIAREDB1 with 89 images and103 images from ‘IDRiD’ dataset. The results that are experimentally obtained by applying this algorithm by applying it on the datasets ‘DIAREDDB1’, ‘IDRiD’ and ‘KAGGLE APTOS’ and obtained accuracies of 95.3%, 97.32% and 97.23% on the respective datasets. The results have been highly satisfactory as well as having very low computational time.

[final paper (journal).docx](https://github.com/JayPatyal/Non-proliferative-diabetic-retinopathy-detection-using-feature-fusion-technique/files/7494953/final.paper.journal.docx)
